AMCAT Logical Questions with Answers


1) If BLACK is coded as DNCEM, then ORANGE is coded as:

A) QTCPIG      B) PSCOHF      C) PSBOHF      D) QTCOIG

Solution: Option A

 

2) If FEATURES is written as GCDPZLLK in a code, what will be the fourth letter from the left, if ADVANTAGE is written in that code?

A) E  B) F C) W D) X

Solution: Option C

 

3) Choose the answer option that arranges the given set of words in the “most” meaningful order. The words when put in order should make logical sense according to size, quality, quantity, occurrence of events, value, appearance, nature, process etc.

1. Community   2. Locality    3. Family    4. Country    5. Person

A) 4,1,2,3,5     B) 4,2,1,3,5     C) 5,3,2,1,4     D) 5,3,4,2,1

Solution: Option C

 

1. Cotton        2. Plant            3. Cloth            4. Yarn             5. Shirt

A) 2,1,4,5,3     B) 2,4,1,3,5     C) 2,1,4,3,5     D) 2,4,3,1,5

Solution: Option C

 

1. Poverty   2. Population   3. Death   4. Unemployment    5. Disease

A) 2, 3, 4, 5, 1  B) 3, 4, 2, 5, 1   C) 2, 4, 1, 5, 3   D) 1, 2, 3, 4, 5

Solution: Option C

 

4) Find the odd man out

(a) FHKO (b) CEHL (c) ZBEJ (d) XZCG

Solution: Option C

 

5) A man pointing to that lady said she is the mother of the husband of my mother. How is the lady related to that man?

A) Grand Mother

B) Mother

C) Aunt

D) Sister

Solution: Option A

 

6) Amrith told to Anand in front of a Photo that “He is the son of my father’s son”. Find who is in the picture if

Amrith have no brothers and sisters.

A) Amrith himself  B) Amrith’s Uncle  C) Amrith’s Father  D) Amrith’s son

Solution: Option D

 

7) Pointing to a boy in the photograph, a girl said, “he is the son of the daughter-in-law of my mother’s mother”. How is girl related to the boy?

A) son

B) brother

C) nephew

D) cousin

Solution: Option D

 

8) A man said “this girl is the wife of the grandson of my mother”. How is the man related to the girl? Consider that the man has no siblings

A) Grandmother    B) Father   C) Father-in-law    D) Husband

Solution: Option C

 

9) From a point Shailu starts walking towards North and after walking 20 meters, she turns to the right and walks 10 meters, then she turns to right again and walks 20m. Then she turns to her left and walks 10 m and finally turns to the left and walks 20m in which direction is she with reference to the starting point?

A) North

B) South

C) North-East

D) East

Solution: Option C

 

10) A group of people has six family members and an advocate. These are L, M, N, O, P, Q and R and having different professions. Each one of them is a journalist, businessman, architect, doctor and pilot but not necessarily in this order. There are three males and three females in the family out of which there are two married couples. M is a businessman and is the father of P. Q is a doctor and grandfather of P who is a male. N is a housewife and is daughter-in-law of O. L is neither a pilot nor a journalist. R is an advocate. N is not the mother of P and M is married but not to O. No lady is a journalist.

A) Which of the following groups represents the three ladies in the group?

a) N, P, L

b) P, L, N

c) L, N, O

d) O, P, L

Solution: Option c

 

B) Who is married to Q?

a) N

(b) O

(c) L

(d) Can’t be determined

Solution: Option b

 

C) Who among the following family members is an architect?

a) L

b) O

c) P

d) Can’t be determined

e) None of these

Solution: Option A

 

D) Which of the following is the profession of P?

a) Architect

b) Pilot

c) Architect or pilot

d) Journalist

e) None of these

Solution: Option d

 

E) How is Q related to O?

a) Father

b) Mother

c) Mother-in- law

d) Son – in – law

e) None of these

Solution: Option e

 

11) Read the below statements and answer the questions

1) Five men P, Q, R, S and T read a newspaper

2) The one who reads first gives it to R

3) The one who reads last has taken it from P

4) T was not the first or last to read

5) There were two readers between Q and P

 

A) Who did Q pass the newspaper to?

a) R   b) T     c) P    d) S

Solution: Option a

B) Who read news paper last?

a) Q    b) S     c) Cannot be mentioned   d) None of the above

Solution: Option b

 

C) Who read the news paper before S?

a) Q    b) R    c) T     d) P

Solution: Option d

 

D) Who read the newspaper first?

a) S    b) Q    c) Data inadequate    d) None of the above

Solution: Option b

 

12) Read the below statements and answer the questions

(i) There are two lecturers, two singers, one doctor and one engineer in a group of six people – A, B, C, D, E and F.

(ii) The doctor C is married to A who is a lecturer.

(iii) The engineer is married to B who is of the same profession as that of E.

(iv) C, A, B, and F are married couples and nobody in the group has the same profession.

(v) E is F’s brother.

 

A) Which of the following is a pair of singers?

a) A and D    b) B and E      c) E and F       d) A and F

Solution: Option b

 

B) How is E related to B?

a) Brother      b) Uncle        c) Father       d) None of these

Solution: Option D

 

C) Which of the following pair is a couple?

a) A and B     b) B and F      c) A and F      d) B and C

Solution: Option b

 

D) Which of the following is a pair of lecturers?

a) A and B      b) A and F      c) A and D     d) A and E

Solution: Option c