AMCAT Verbal questions - Antonyms


1) Direction: Select the option that is most nearly opposite in meaning to the given word.

VANITY (OPPOSITE)

A) Pride B) Humility C) Conceit D) Indifference



Solution: Option B



2) Direction: Select the option that is most nearly opposite in meaning to the given word.

ECONOMICAL (OPPOSITE)

A) Frugal B) Wasteful C) Efficient D) Plain



Solution: Option B


AMCAT Verbal questions - Synonyms


3) Direction: Select the option that is most nearly similar in meaning to the given word: TIMID

A) Fast B)Slow C)Medium D)Shy



Solution: Option D



4) Direction: Select the option that is most nearly similar in meaning to the given word: RESTRAINT

A) Hindrance B) Obstacle C) Repression D) Restriction



Solution: Option D



5) Direction: Select the option that is most nearly similar in meaning to the given word: CORPULENT

A) Lean B) Gaunt C)Emaciated D)Obese



Solution: Option D



6) Direction: Select the option that is most nearly similar in meaning to the given word:ADVERSITY

A) Failure B) Helplessness C)Misfortune D)Crisis



Solution: Option C



7) Direction: Select the option that is most nearly similar in meaning to the given word:WARRIOR

A) Soldier B)Sailor C)Pirate D)Spy



Solution: OptionA


AMCAT Verbal questions - Contextual vocubulary


8) Direction: Select the correct option that fills the blank(s) to make the sentence meaningfully complete.

She ---------- most of her time to music.

A) spent B) lent C) devoted D) made



Solution: Option C



9) Direction: Select the correct option that fills the blank(s) to make the sentence meaningfully complete.

Rati just chimes---------- the opinion of her husband and seems to have no mind of her own.

A)from B)with C)in with D)up with



Solution: Option C



10) Direction: Select the correct option that fills the blank(s) to make the sentence meaningfully complete.

Most children remain ---------- school ---------- the ages of seven and eight.

A) in/in B)at/between C)inside/of D)under/beyond



Solution: Option B



11) Direction: Select the correct option that fills the blank(s) to make the sentence meaningfully complete.

Radha felt very much grateful ---------- her boss for the kindness he had shown in granting her leave.

A) to B)for C) towards D)with



Solution: Option A



12) Neither Surekha _____ Ravi will be able to attend the meeting on Sunday.

A) or B) nor C)but D)and



Solution: Option B


AMCAT Verbal questions - Reading Comprehension


13) Read the passage and answer the questions.



Management is a set of processes that can keep a complicated system of people and technology to run smoothly. The most important aspects of management include planning, budgeting, organizing, staffing, controlling and problem-solving.
Leadership is a set of processes that creates organizations in the first place or adapts them to significantly changing circumstances. Leadership defines what the future should look like, aligns people with that vision and inspires them to make it happen despite the obstacles. This distinction is absolutely crucial for our purposes here: Successful transformation is 70 to 90 per cent leadership and only 10 to 30 percent management. Yet for historical reasons, many organizations today don't have much leadership. And almost everyone thinks about the problem here as one of managing change.
For most of this country, as we created thousands and thousands of large organizations for the first time in human history, we didn't have enough good managers to keep all those bureaucracies functioning. Many companies and universities developed management programs and hundreds and thousands of people were encouraged to learn management on the job. And they did. But, people were taught little about leadership.
To some degree, management was emphasized because it's easier to preach than leadership. But even more so, management was the main item on the twentieth century agenda because that's what was needed. For every entrepreneur or business builder who was a leader, we needed hundreds of managers to run their ever-growing enterprises. Unfortunately for us today, this emphasis on management has often been institutionalized in corporate cultures that discourage employees from learning how to lead. Ironically, past success is usually the key ingredient in producing this outcome.
The syndrome, as I have observed it on many occasions, goes like this: Success creates some degree of marked dominance which in turn produces much growth. After a while keeping the ever-larger organization under control becomes the primary challenge. So, attention turns inward and managerial competencies are nurtured. With a strong emphasis on management but not leadership, bureaucracy and an inward focus takeover. But with continued success, the result mostly of market dominance, the problem often goes unaddressed and an unhealthy arrogance begins to evolve. All of these characteristics then make any transformation effort much more difficult. Arrogant managers can over-evaluate their current performance and competitive position, listen poorly and learn slowly.
Inwardly focused employees can have difficulty seeing the very forces that present threats and opportunities. Bureaucratic cultures can smother those who want to respond to shifting conditions. And the lack of leadership leaves no force inside these organizations to break out of the morass.


A) Why did companies and universities develop programs to prepare managers in such large numbers?

a. Companies and universities wanted to generate funds through these programs.

b. The large number of organizations were created as they needed managers in good number.

c. Organizations did not want to spend their scarce resources in training managers.

d. Organizations wanted to create communication network through trained managers.



Solution: Option b


B)Which of the following characteristics helps an organization in its efforts to transform?

a. Emphasis on leadership and not management

b. Strong and dogmatic culture

c. Bureaucratic and inward-looking approach

d. Failing to acknowledge the value of customers and shareholders



Solution: Option a



14) Read the passage and answer the questions.



The impressive recent growth of certain sectors of the Indian economy is a necessary but insufficient condition for the elimination of extreme poverty.



In order to ensure that the poorest benefit from this growth, and also contribute to it, the expansion and improvement of the microfinance sector should be a national priority.studies suggest that the impact of microfinance on the poorest is greater than on the poor, and yet another that non-participating members of communities where microfinance operates experience socio-economic gains suggesting strong spillover effects. Moreover, well-managed microfinance institutions (MFIs) have shown a capacity to wean themselves off of subsidies and become sustainable within a few years.



Microfinance is powerful, but it is clearly no panacea. Microfinance does not directly address some structural problems facing Indian society and the economy, and it is not yet as efficient as it will be when economies of scale are realised and a more supportive policy environment is created.



Loan products are still too inflexible, and savings and insurance services that the poor also need are not widely available due to regulatory barriers



Still, microfinance is one of the few market-based, scaleable anti-poverty solutions that is in place in India today, and the argument to scale it up to meet the overwhelming need is compelling.According to Sa-Dhan, the overall outreach is 6.5 million families and the sector-wide loan portfolio is Rs 2,500 crore.



However, this is meeting only 10% of the estimated demand. Importantly, new initiatives are expanding this success story to the some of the country's poorest regions, such as eastern and central Uttar Pradesh.

The local and national governments have an important role to play in ensuring the growth and improvement of microfinance. First and foremost, the market should be left to set interest rates, not the state. Ensuring transparency and full disclosure of rates including fees is something the government should ensure, and something that new technologies as well as reporting and data standards are already enabling.



Furthermore, government regulators should set clear criteria for allowing MFIs to mobilise savings for on-lending to the poor; this would allow for a large measure of financial independence amongst well-managed MFIs. Each Indian state could consider forming a multi-party working group to meet with microfinance leaders and have a dialogue with them about how the policy environment could be made more supportive and to clear up misperceptions.



There is an opportunity to make a real dent in hard-core poverty through microfinance. By unleashing the entrepreneurial talent of the poor, we will slowly but surely transform India in ways we can only begin to imagine today.



A) Which of following is not a challenge faced by microfinance in India?

a. does not help the poorest

b. efficient when economy of scale is achieved

c. non_conducting policy environment

d. structural problems of india society



Solution: Option a



B) Which of the following is correct with regard to microfinance?

a. the supply is more than demand

b. the demand is more than supply

c. the supply and demand are well balanced

d. none of these can be inferred from the passage



Solution: Option b



C) which of the following will the author afree to?

a. indian economy growth will solve the problem of poverty.

b. indian economy growth is not enough to solve the problem of poverty

c. indian economy growth aggravetes the problem of poverty

d. none of these



Solution: Option b



D) what is the author view about interest rate?

a. the goverment should set them

b. there shoukd be transparency with regard to them

c. the market forces should set them

d. both a and b

e. both b and c



Solution: Option e



15) Read the passage and answer the questions.



Since the late 1970s when the technology for sex determination first came into being, sex-selective abortion has unleashed a saga of horror. Experts are calling it "sanitised barbarism". Demographic trends indicate the country is fast heading towards a million female foetuses aborted each year.



Although foetal sex determination and sex selection is a criminal offence in India, the practice is rampant. Private clinics with ultrasound machines are doing brisk business. Everywhere, people are paying to know the sex of an unborn child. And paying more to abort the female child. The technology has even reached remote areas through mobile clinics. Dr. Puneet Bedi, obstetrician and specialist in foetal medicine, says these days he hardly sees a family with two daughters. People are getting sex determination done even for the first child, he says.



Spreading like a virus a recent media workshop on the issue of sex selection and female foeticide brought home the extent of the problem. Held in Agra in February, the workshop was organised by UNICEF, Business Community Foundation, and the Centre for Advocacy and Research. Doctors, social scientists, researchers, activists, bureaucrats, journalists told their stories of what they were doing to fight the problem.



If the 1991 Census showed that two districts had a child sex ratio (number of girls per thousand boys) less than 850; by 2001 it was 51 districts. Child rights activist Dr. Sabu George says foeticide is the most extreme form of violence against women. "Today a girl is several times more likely to be eliminated before birth than die of various causes in the first year. Nature intended the womb to be a safe space. Today, doctors have made it the most unsafe space for the female child," he says. He believes that doctors must be held responsible "They have aggressively promoted the misuse of technology and legitimised foeticide."

Researchers and scholars use hard-hitting analogy to emphasise the extent of the problem. Dr. Satish Agnihotri, senior IAS officer and scholar who has done extensive research on the issue, calls the technology "a weapon of mass destruction". Dr. Bedi refers to it as genocide: "More than 6 million killed in 20 years. That's the number of Jews killed in the Holocaust."



Foeticide is also one of the most common causes of maternal mortality. The sex of the foetus can be determined only around 14-16 weeks. This means most sex selective abortions are late. Abortion after 20 weeks is illegal in India. Donna Fernandes, Vimochana, a Bangalore-based NGO, says foeticide is related to a host of other social problems as varied as privatisation of medical education and dowry. Karnataka has the highest number of private medical colleges. Healthcare turning commodity has led to terrifying consequences. Adds Fernandes, "Wherever green revolution has happened foeticide has increased. With more landholdings and wealth inheritance dowry has increased. Daughters are considered an economic liability. Today, people don't want their daughters to study higher a more well-educated groom will demand more dowry."



Ironically, as income levels increase, sex determination and sex selection is increasing. The most influential pockets have the worst sex ratios. Take Punjab for instance 793 girls for every 1,000 boys against the national figure of 927. Or South Delhi one of the most affluent localities of the Capital 760. According to Satara-based advocate Varsha Deshpande, small families have come at the cost of the girl child.



In patriarchal States like Rajasthan where infanticide has existed for centuries, this new technology has many takers. Meena Sharma, 27, television journalist from Rajasthan, who did a series of sting operations across four States last year, says, "Today, people want to pretend they are modern and that they do not discriminate between a girl and a boy. Yet, they will not hesitate to quietly go to the next village and get an ultrasound done."



Sharma was determined to expose the widespread malpractice. She travelled with pregnant women as "decoys" across four States and more than 13,000 km to do a series of sting operations. She says more than 100 doctors of the 140 they met were ready to do a sex selective abortion, some as late as the seventh month. "We were shocked at the greed we saw doctors did not even ask why we wanted to abort, far from dissuading us from doing so," she says.



What's the solution? Varsha Deshpande says the PCPNDT Act (Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques Regulation and Prevention of Misuse) is very well conceived and easy to use. "We have done 17 sting operations across Maharashtra and got action taken against more than 25 doctors," says Varsha. She adds that other laws for violence against women such as dowry, domestic violence, rape, put the control in the hands of the police which is biased. Therefore, even though the law exists, offenders get away. This law preventing sex determination and sex selection is much easier to use, she says.

Regulating technology



Akhila Sivadas, Centre for Advocacy and Research, Delhi, agrees that the law is very well conceived and the need of the hour is legal literacy to ensure the law is implemented. "The demand and supply debate has been going on for some time. Doctors say there is a social demand and they are only fulfilling it. They argue that social attitudes must change. However, in this case supply fuels demand. Technology will have to be regulated. Technology in the hands of greedy, vested interests, cannot be neutral. There is a law to prevent misuse and we must be able to use it," she says. CFAR is currently partnering with local NGOs in six districts of Rajasthan to help ensure implementation of the law.



On the "demand" side, experts such as Dr. Agnihotri argue that women's participation in workforce, having disposable incomes and making a contribution to larger society will make a difference to how women are seen. Youth icons and role models such as Sania Mirza are making an impact, he says.

Others feel there needs to be widespread visible contempt and anger in society against this "genocide" "the kind we saw against the Nithari killings," says Dr. Bedi. "Today nobody can say female foeticide is not their problem." Time we all did our bit to help save the girl child. Time's running out.



A) Which of the following will Dr. George agree to?

a) The girl child is as safe in the mothers womb as after birth

b) The girl child is safe in the mothers womb in comparison to after birth

c) The girl child is safer after birth as compared to mothers womb

d) None of these



Solution: Option B



B) What is the solution to the problem of female foeticide as envisioned by Dr. Bedi?

a) Effective use of law

b) Mass public outrage

c) Comparison with Nithari killing

d) Contempt towards doctors



Solution: Option B



C) What is the topic of the passage?

a) Factual

b) Biased

c) Aggressive

d) Sad



Solution: Option A



D) What is Akhila Sivadass opinion on the PCPNDT act?

a) The act is inconsistent

b) The act needs reform

c) The act encourages demand for foeticide

d) The act is sound, but needs enforcement



Solution: Option D



E) What does the word 'sanitised' imply in the 1st para of passage?

a) Unforgivable

b) Legitimate

c) Free from dirt

d) None of these



Solution: Option c



F) Which to people suggest 2 similar problem

a) Agnihotri and George

b) Bedi and Agnihotri

c) George and Bedi

d) George and Sivadas



Solution: Option d



G) Which demand does the author refer to in para 5

a) demand for principled doctor

b) demand for high income jobs for women

c) demand for youth icons

d) demand for sex determination and abortion



Solution: Option D



16) Read the passage and answer the questions.



The economic transformation of India is one of the great business stories of our time. As stifling government regulations have been lifted, entrepreneurship has flourished, and the country has become a high-powered center for information technology and pharmaceuticals. Indian companies like Infosys and Wipro are powerful global players, while Western firms like G.E. and I.B.M. now have major research facilities in India employing thousands. Indias seemingly endless flow of young, motivated engineers, scientists, and managers offering developed-world skills at developing-world wages is held to be putting American jobs at risk, and the country is frequently heralded as the next economic superpower.



But India has run into a surprising hitch on its way to superpower status: its inexhaustible supply of workers is becoming exhausted. Although India has one of the youngest workforces on the planet, the head of Infosys said recently that there was an acute shortage of skilled manpower, and a study by Hewitt Associates projects that this year salaries for skilled workers will rise fourteen and a half per cent, a sure sign that demand for skilled labor is outstripping supply.



How is this possible in a country that every year produces two and a half million college graduates and four hundred thousand engineers? Start with the fact that just ten per cent of Indians get any kind of post-secondary education, compared with some fifty per cent who do in the U.S. Moreover, of that ten per cent, the vast majority go to one of India's seventeen thousand colleges, many of which are closer to community colleges than to four-year institutions. India does have more than three hundred universities, but a recent survey by the London Times Higher Education Supplement put only two of them among the top hundred in the world. Many Indian graduates therefore enter the workforce with a low level of skills. A current study led by Vivek Wadhwa, of Duke University, has found that if you define engineer by U.S. standards, India produces just a hundred and seventy thousand engineers a year, not four hundred thousand. Infosys says that, of 1.3 million applicants for jobs last year, it found only two per cent acceptable.



There was a time when many economists believed that post-secondary education didn't have much impact on economic growth. The really important educational gains, they thought, came from giving rudimentary skills to large numbers of people (which India still needs to do at least thirty per cent of the population is illiterate). They believed that, in economic terms, society got a very low rate of return on its investment in higher education. But lately that assumption has been overturned, and the social rate of return on investment in university education in India has been calculated at an impressive nine or ten per cent. In other words, every dollar India puts into higher education creates value for the economy as a whole. Yet India spends roughly three and a half per cent of its G.D.P. on education, significantly below the percentage spent by the U.S., even though Indias population is much younger, and spending on education should be proportionately higher.



The irony of the current situation is that India was once considered to be over educated. In the seventies, as its economy languished, it seemed to be a country with too many engineers and Ph.D.s working as clerks in government offices. Once the Indian business climate loosened up, though, that meant companies could tap a backlog of hundreds of thousands of eager, skilled workers at their disposal. Unfortunately, the educational system did not adjust to the new realities. Between 1985 and 1997, the number of teachers in India actually fell, while the percentage of students enrolled in high school or college rose more slowly than it did in the rest of the world. Even as the need for skilled workers was increasing, India was devoting relatively fewer resources to producing them.



Since the Second World War, the countries that have made successful leaps from developing to developed status have all poured money, public and private, into education. South Korea now spends a higher percentage of its national income on education than nearly any other country in the world. Taiwan had a system of universal primary education before its phase of hypergrowth began. And, more recently, Ireland's economic boom was spurred, in part, by an opening up and expansion of primary and secondary schools and increased funding for universities. Education will be all the more important for India's well-being; the earlier generation of so-called Asian Tigers depended heavily on manufacturing, but India's focus on services and technology will require a more skilled and educated workforce.



India has taken tentative steps to remedy its skills famine the current government has made noises about doubling spending on education, and a host of new colleges and universities have sprung up since the mid-nineties. But India's impressive economic performance has made the problem seem less urgent than it actually is, and allowed the government to defer difficult choices. (In a country where more than three hundred million people live on a dollar a day, producing college graduates can seem like a low priority.) Ultimately, the Indian government has to pull off a very tough trick, making serious changes at a time when things seem to be going very well. It needs, in other words, a clear sense of everything that can still go wrong. The paradox of the Indian economy today is that the more certain its glowing future seems to be, the less likely that future becomes



A) Which of these could you infer according to the passage?

a) Wages in the Developing countries are less as compared to wages in the developed countries

b) Wages in the Developing countries are more as compared to wages in the developed countries

c) Wages in the Developing countries are same as wages in the developed countries

d) None of these



Solution: Option a



B) What does "American jobs" in the last line of the first paragraph of the passage imply?

a) Jobs provided by American companies

b) Jobs held (or to be held) by American people

c) Jobs open to only American citizens

d) Jobs provided by the American government



Solution: Option b



C) According to the passage, why India does not have enough skilled labour?

a) The total amount of young population is low

b) The total number of colleges are insufficient

c) Students do not want to study

d) Maximum universities and colleges do not match global standards.



Solution: Option d



D) What can you infer as the meaning of 'stifling' from the passage?

a) Democratic b) Liberal c)Impeding d) Undemocratic



Solution: Option c



E) What is an appropriate title to the passage?

a) Growing Indian Economy

b) Higher education in India

c) India's Skill Shortage

d) Entrepreneurship in India



Solution: Option c



F) In the third sentence of the third paragraph of the passage, the phrase "closer to community colleges " is used. What does it imply?

a) Near to community colleges

b)Like community colleges

c) Close association with community colleges

d) None of these



Solution: Option b



G) According to the passage, what is the paradox of the Indian economy today?

a) The economic progress is impressive, but the poor (earning one dollar per day) are not benefited.

b) The economic progress is impressive disallowing the government to take tough decisions.

c) There is not enough skilled workforce and the government does not realize this.

d) Government is not ready to invest in setting up new universities.



Solution: Option b



H) Why are salaries for skilled workers rising?

a) Companies are paying hire to lure skilled people to jobs.

b) American companies are ready to pay higher to skilled workers.

c) Entrepreneurship is growing in India.

d) There is not enough skilled workers, while the demand for them is high.



Solution: Option d


17) Read the passage and answer the questions.



The stratosphere specifically, the lower stratosphere has, it seems, been drying out. Water vapour is a greenhouse gas, and the cooling effect on the Earth's climate due to this desiccation may account for a fair bit of the slowdown in the rise of global temperatures seen over the past ten years. These are the somewhat surprising conclusions of a paper by Susan Solomon of America's National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and her colleagues, which was published online by Scienceon January 28th. Whether the trend will continue, stop or reverse itself, though, is at present unknown.



The stratosphere sits on top of the troposphere, the lowest, densest layer of the atmosphere. The boundary between the two, the tropopause, is about 18km above your head, if you are in the tropics, and a few kilometres lower if you are at higher latitudes (or up a mountain). The tropopause separates a rowdy below from a sedate above. In the troposphere, the air at higher altitudes is in general cooler than the air below it, an unstable situation in which warm and often moist air below is endlessly buoying up into cooler air above. The resultant commotion creates clouds, storms and much of the rest of the world's weather. In the stratosphere, the air gets warmer at higher altitudes, which provides stability



The stratosphere which extends up to about 55km, where the mesosphere begins is made even less weather-prone by the absence of water vapour, and thus of the clouds and precipitation to which it leads. This is because the top of the troposphere is normally very cold, causing ascending water vapour to freeze into ice crystals that drift and fall, rather than continuing up into the stratosphere.



A little water manages to get past this cold trap. But as Dr Solomon and her colleagues note, satellite measurements show that rather less has been doing so over the past ten years than was the case previously. Plugging the changes in water vapour into a climate model that looks at the way different substances absorb and emit infrared radiation, they conclude that between 2000 and 2009 a drop in stratospheric water vapour of less than one part per million slowed the rate of warming at the Earth's surface by about 25%.



Such a small change in stratospheric water vapour can have such a large effect precisely because the stratosphere is already dry. It is the relative change in the amount of a greenhouse gas, not its absolute level, which determines how much warming it can produce, and this change was about 10% of the total.



By comparison with the greenhouse effect caused by increases in carbon dioxide, the stratospheric drying is hardly massive. Dr Solomon and her colleagues peg the 2000-2009 cooling effect at about a third of the opposite effect they would expect from the carbon dioxide added over the same decade, and only a bit more than a twentieth of the warming expected from the rise in carbon dioxide since the industrial revolution. But it is surprising, nonetheless.



It is for the most part only in the tropics that tropospheric air can be drawn up into the stratosphere; it is also in the tropics that one finds the most spectacular thunderstorms, and these can reduce the temperature at the top of the troposphere, deepening the cold trap that ascending water vapour must pass through and thus impeding its rise. Over the past decade this stormy effect seems to have been pronounced, with the coldest parts of the tropical troposphere getting about a degree colder. But why this should be is not clear. Sea-surface temperatures, which drive the big tropical storms, have been high, and during the past few years have seemed to correlate with increased coldness aloft. At other times, though, they have seemed to predict a wetter stratosphere.



Dr Solomon cannot say what is driving the change she and her colleagues have studied, nor how long it will last. It may be one of many aspects of the climate that flop around, seemingly at random, over periods of years to decades. Or it might be something driven by a long-term change, such as the build-up of greenhouse gases (or, conceivably, layers of sooty smog). Dr Solomon suspects the former, because of the way the relationship between the stratosphere and the sea-surface temperature has changed. Patterns of sea-surface temperature which come and go, rather than absolute levels that continue to rise, may be the important thing.



That said, it is possible that the changes in the stratosphere are linked to the effects humans are having on the atmosphere at large, and that the drying may persist in providing a brake on warming. Or it may be, as others have suggested in the past, that the long-term trend, as the troposphere warms up, will be to a wetter, more warming lower stratosphere, too. Whether this is the case depends on physical subtleties that are currently undecided, but it is not implausible. If it were true, then the current drying would be more a blip than a trend.



A better understanding of matters as diverse as how water vapour actually gets across the tropopause and how the stratosphere circulates at the global scale might help sort the question out, and Dr Solomon's high profile contribution may help focus researchers on those problems. Meanwhile, the good news (if further research bears it out) that the world's warming has been slowed, at least for a few years, needs to be leavened with the realisation, yet again, that there are significant uncertainties in science's understanding of the climate and thus unquantifiable risks ahead.



A) What is the order of layers in the atmosphere, starting from the lowermost and going to the topmost?

a) Tropopause, Troposphere, Mesosphere, Stratosphere.

b) Troposphere, Tropopause, Stratosphere, Mesosphere.

c) Troposphere, Tropopause, Mesosphere, Stratosphere. bbcd

d) Troposhere, Stratosphere, Tropopause, Mesosphere.



Solution: Option b



B) What is the passage has been cited as the main reason affecting global temperatures?

a) Relative change in water vapour content in the Stratosphere.

b) Drop in Stratospheric water vapour of less than one part per million.

c) The extreme dropness in the Stratosphere.

d) Absorption and emission of infrared radiation by different substances.



Solution: Option b



C) Why is the situation in the troposphere defined as unstable?

a) Because, unlike the Stratosphere, there is too much water vapour in the Troposphere.

b) Because the Troposphere is not directly linked to the Stratosphere, but through the Tropopause which creates much of the worlds weather.

c) Because of the interaction between warm and cool air which is unpredictable in nature and can leads to storms.

d) Because this layer of the atmosphere is very cloudy and can lead to weather related disruptions.



Solution: Option c



D) What accounts for the absence of water vapour in Stratosphere?

a) The layer of Stratosphere is situated too far above the water vapour to reach.

b) Rising global temperatures, leading to reduced water vapour that get absorbed in the Troposphere.

c) The greenhouse gas gets absorbed by the cloudes in the Troposphere and comes down as rain.

d) Before the vapour can rise up, it has to pass through below freezing temperatures and turns into ice.



Solution: Option d



18) Read the passage and answer the questions.



The unique Iron Age Experimental Centre at Lejre, about 40 km west of Copenhagen, serves as a museum, a classroom and a place to get away from it all. How did people live during the Iron Age? How did they support themselves? What did they eat and how did they cultivate the land? These and a myriad of other questions prodded the pioneers of the Lejre experiment.



Living in the open and working 10 hours a day, volunteers from all over Scandinavia led by 30 experts, built the first village in the ancient encampment in a matter of months. The house walls were of clay, the roofs of hay - all based on original designs. Then came the second stage - getting back to the basics of living. Families were invited to stay in the 'prehistoric village' for a week or two at a time and rough it Iron Age-style.



Initially, this experiment proved none too easy for modern Danes accustomed to central heating, but it convinced the centre that there was something to the Lejre project. Little by little, the modern Iron Agers learnt that their huts were, after all, habitable. The problems were numerous - smoke belching out from the rough-and-ready fireplaces into the rooms and so on. These problems, however, have led to some discoveries: domed smoke ovens made of clay, for example, give out more heat and consume less fuel than an open fire, and when correctly stoked, they are practically smokeless.



By contacting other museums, the Lejre team has been able to reconstruct ancient weaving looms and pottery kilns. Iron Age dyeing techniques, using local natural vegetation, have also been revived, as have ancient baking and cooking methods.



A) What is the main purpose of building the Iron Age experimental center?

a) Prehistoric village where people can stay for a week or two to get away from modern living

b) Replicate the Iron Age to get a better understanding of the time and people of that era

c) To discover the differences between a doomed smoke oven and an open fire to identify the more efficient of the two

d) Revive activities of ancient women such as weaving, pottery, dyeing, cooking and baking



Solution: Option b



B) What is the meaning of the sentence "Initially, this experiment proved none too easy for modern Danes accustomed to central heating, but it convinced the centre that there was something to the Lejre project."?

a) Even though staying in the huts wasn't easy for the modern people, the centre saw merit in the simple living within huts compared to expensive apartments

b) Staying in the huts was quite easy for the modern people and the centre also saw merit in the simple living within huts compared to expensive apartments

c) The way of living of the Iron Age proved difficult for the people of the modern age who are used to living in luxury

d) The way of living of the Iron Age proved very easy for the people of the modern age since it was hot inside the huts, and they were anyway used to heated rooms



Solution: Option c



C) What can be the title of the passage?

a) Modern techniques find their way into pre-historic villages

b) Co-existence of ancient and modern times

c) Glad to be living in the 21st Century

d) Turning back time



Solution: Option d



D) From the passage what can be inferred to be the centre's initial outlook towards the Lejre project?

a) It initiated the project

b) It eagerly supported it

c) It felt the project was very unique

d) It was apprehensive about it



Solution: Option a


AMCAT Verbal questions -Sentence Improvement and Construction


19) In the question each passage consists of six sentences. The first and sixth sentences are given in the beginning. The middle four sentences have been removed and jumbled up. These are labeled P, Q, R and S. Select the proper order for the four sentences.

S1: Venice is strange and beautiful city

S6: This is because Venice has no streets.

P: there are about four hundred old stone bridges joining the island of the Venice.

Q: In this city there are no motor cars, no horses, and no buses.

R: There are small islands near one another.

S: it is not an island, but hundred and seventeen islands

a) PQRS

b) PRQS

c) SRPQ

d) PQSR



Solution: Option c



20) Select the proper order for the four sentences.

S1: Rajeev and his friends went for river rafting.

S6: Later they all came to know that he is aqua phobic.

P: Rajeev forced him to have some medicine.

Q: They tried persuading him to join them for rafting, but he had severe stomach ache.

R: Which he refused adamantly.

S: Among all his friends, Kunal backed out at the last moment.

a) PSQR

b) QPRS

c) RQSP

d)SQPR



Solution: Option d



21) In the question, a part of the sentence is italicized. Alternatives to the italicized part are given which may improve the construction of the sentence. Select the correct alternative.

1)Get out of the building!It sound like the generator is going to explode.

a) It is sounding like the generator is going to explode

b) It sounds like the generator is going to explode

c) It sounds like generator exploded

d) No change



Solution: Option b



22) Munnar is the most refreshing and tranquil hill station in the state of Kerala.

a) Is the most refreshing and tranquillity

b) Is the most refresh and tranquil

c) Is a most refreshing and tranquil

d) No improvement needed



Solution: Option d


AMCAT Verbal questions -Error Identification


23) Read the sentence to find out whether there is any grammatical error in it. The error, if any, will be in part of the sentence. The letter of that part is the answer. Ignore the error of punctuation, if any

(A) Shalini win the race (B) as she practised too (C) hard for the tournament

a) A

b) B

c) C

d) No error



Solution: Option A



24)(A)It have been/ (B) ages since I/(C) played the guitar/ (D) no error

a) A

b) B

c) C

d) D



Option: A



25) (A ) A sales man of that (B) company tried to (C) cheated a native lady.

a) A

b) B

c) C

d) No error



Solution: Option C